Readme.md, before:

## Prerequisites

1. **Nodejs** should be installed. You can install the LTS version from here https://nodejs.org/en/.
2. **Allure** should be installed for viewing the test results. You can install the latest version from here https://docs.qameta.io/allure/#_get_started.
3. You will need a IDE/text editor like [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)/[WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/download/) or similar to view/edit the code.

## How to run the tests locally
- Update **_`src/config/local.env`_** with your github _username_ and _personal access token_.
    - https://github.com/settings/tokens, you can generate one from your github account.

### With Makefile
1. Open the project folder (github-public-api-tests).
2. Run command **_`make`_** on your command line. It will run the tests and opens the test results in the browser.

### Other way
1. Open the project folder (github-public-api-tests). 
2. Run **_`npm install`_** on your command line to install all the dependencies.
3. Run **_`source src/config/local.env`_** to set environment variables on your command line.
4. To run the tests, run command **_`npm test`_**. You can check for the test results in the terminal.
5. To see the test report run command **_`allure serve`_**. This opens test report in your browser.

#### Note:
- All the commands are run from folder **_github-public-api-tests_**.
- If you want to use the _username_ and _personal access token_ of my test account it is already saved in local.env. But, the _personal access token_ expires and you will have to request me for the new token(could be related to 2FA). Sorry for the inconvenience.

## CI/CD:
- Gitlab-CI integration is available [here](https://gitlab.com/roopesh.hiriyanna/github-public-api-tests/-/pipelines).
- For now, tests can be run on gitlab and then the test results in xml are stored as artifacts. But, we do not have the results in html yet.

Commit message:

Docker support for local tests

Readme.md, after:

## Prerequisites

1. **Docker** should be installed. You can install the latest version from [here](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).
2. **Nodejs** should be installed. You can install the LTS version from [here](https://nodejs.org/en/).
3. **Allure** should be installed for viewing the test results. You can install the latest version from [here](https://docs.qameta.io/allure/#_get_started).
4. You will need a IDE/text editor like [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)/[WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/download/) or similar to view/edit the code.

## How to run the tests locally
- **To test with npm**: Update **_`src/config/local.env`_** with your github _username_ and _personal access token_.
- **To test with docker**: Update **_`Dockerfile`_** with your github _username_ and _personal access token_.
- You can generate _personal access token_ from your github account -> https://github.com/settings/tokens.

### Test With Makefile (npm)
1. Open the project folder (github-public-api-tests).
2. Run **_`source src/config/local.env`_** to set environment variables on your command line.
3. Run command **_`make npm`_** on your command line. It will run the tests and opens the allure test report in the browser.

### Test With Makefile (docker)
1. Open the project folder (github-public-api-tests).
2. Run command **_`make docker`_** on your command line. It will run the tests on docker locally. Unfortunately, allure doesn't have official image yet for reports on docker.

### Other way
1. Open the project folder (github-public-api-tests). 
2. Run **_`npm install`_** on your command line to install all the dependencies.
3. Run **_`source src/config/local.env`_** to set environment variables on your command line.
4. To run the tests, run command **_`npm test`_**. You can check for the test results in the terminal.
5. To see the test report run command **_`allure serve`_**. This opens test report in your browser.

#### Note:
- All the commands are run from folder **_github-public-api-tests_**.
- If you want to use the _username_ and _personal access token_ of my test account it is already saved in local.env. But, the _personal access token_ expires and you will have to request me for the new token(could be related to 2FA). Sorry for the inconvenience.

## CI/CD:
- Gitlab-CI integration is available [here](https://gitlab.com/roopesh.hiriyanna/github-public-api-tests/-/pipelines).
- For now, tests can be run on gitlab and then the test results in xml are stored as artifacts. But, we do not have the results in html yet.
